====DRAFT====

States a package could be in

After a source package is uploaded (or, equivalently, a binNMU is
scheduled), the corresponding package in the wanna-build database enters
into the transient states (or Auto-Not-For-Us, or Installed if the binary
package is uploaded together with the source package), till it reaches an
final state.

States are considered different whether they might be changed by software
depending on other packages or because a buildd pickes it up ("transient
states"), or whether they are only left by explicit human decision or
upload of the same package (i.e. change of the source version or the binNMU
version) ("final states").


Transient states
================

If a package is said to enter the transient states, it is always put to
needs-build or bd-uninstallable. Even if the package was previously in
another transient state, it is considered "entering". Upload of a new
version of a package makes it entering the transient state, as well as
scheduling an binNMU.

On entering the transient state all temporary build-priorities, extra
conflicts and depends are removed.


needs-build
bd-uninstallable
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
The initial state of any package. Which of the two states is choosen only
depends on the buildability of the package, and may change often.

building
~~~~~~~~
packages from needs-build are picked up from the buildd and move into the
building state. Packages from building might be given back on problems on
the buildd itself, and go back into needs-build/bd-uninstallable. Packages
in building might also short-cut into uploaded, installed or failed (i.e.
the states built, build-attempted and uploaded are technical spoken
optional).

built
~~~~~
packages are marked built automatically if the buildd is satisfied with the
build of the package. Built is only reached from building, and exited
usually to uploaded or installed.

uploaded
~~~~~~~~
packages are marked uploaded by buildd-uploader once they are transfered to
the relevant archive server or upload queue (e.g. ftp-master.d.o).

build-attempted
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
packages are marked build-attempted automatically if the buildd is not
satisfied with the build of the package. build-attempted is only reached
from building, and exited usually to failed (or not at all, i.e. it's quite
often an de-facto final state).

dep-wait
~~~~~~~~
Packages from an transient state could be marked as "dep-wait" if they
should only be built after an certain version of another package is
available. This happens usually for binNMUs.



Final states
============

Installed
~~~~~~~~~
After a package is the same in source and binary version, it is marked as
Installed. This state is usually left as a new source package is uploaded,
or a binNMU is scheduled, when the package enters the transient states.

Not-For-Us
~~~~~~~~~~
Packages are marked by hand that they shouldn't be built. This state is
only left by explicit marking a package as for-us, and not when a new
version is uploaded.

Auto-Not-For-Us
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Packages are not to be considered for building due to being marked as such
in the source package arch list, in the Packages-arch-specific file or if
all potential binary packages are overwritten by newer arch-all-packages.
This state is entered directly on upload of an source package, and only
left with a new version which includes the architecture, or by removing the
package from Packages-arch-specific.

Failed
~~~~~~
packages are marked failed by buildd admins decision usually, if they
haven't built sucessfully and need an bug fix or porting. This state is
left with a new source version, and packages enter the transient state.
